Aggregation.
So, we've kind of already
been cheating a little bit.
You've probably already seen it's just
a really common kind of query to run.
But let's go ahead and
do a few of these right now.
So, I'm gonna say SELECT,
COUNT (*) FROM ingredients.
If you ever wanna know how many rows
you have in a particular database,
that's what this does.
It's aggregating all of your rows together
and then returning to you a number.
You wanna know how many recipes we have?
56.
You wanna know how many
recipes photos we have, 44.
And recipe ingredients,
170, right?
COUNT(*) is something that you're
going to see very frequently.
What if I wanted to know how many
different types of ingredients we have?
I don't wanna know what they are, I wanna
know how many different ones we have.
Well, here from recipes,
sorry ingredients,
I can say DISTINCT type.
And this will return to
me that I have four.
It's not gonna tell me what they are,
cuz I didn't ask for that,
it tells me how many
different types we have.
So this is where we're actually
telling it what we want you to count.
When you put COUNT(*) in there,
you're just saying count everything,
count everything the results set and
give that back to me.
Just for clarity sake, if you wanna
see what those types actually are,
you can say SELECT DISTINCT
type FROM ingredients.
And this will actually give
you the four different types.
What if I wanna know how
many of each type there is?
Seems like that would be
useful information to know.
So, here I would say SELECT,
let's Ctrl+L this so you can see.
SELECT.
Type, right we wanna know the type and
then we wanna know the count of
how many of each type there is.
So count type, I think that tracks, right.
From ingredients, now we have to give
it like a little bit of a hint is,
how are you going to group
these things together, right.
That's where you enter this GROUP BY, a
group by is always going to be accompanied
by some sort of aggregation function,
count as an aggregation function.
Another one that you might,
use a lot is average or min or max, right?
It's taking a bunch of things and kind of
condensing them down or, in other words,
aggregating them into some
higher level insight, right?
Here we're gonna group by type, right?
Because that's actually what
we're trying to count here.
We have 29 vegetables, 78 fruit.
And meat 6.
Now you get into this weird situation of,
let's say, I was trying to do a query of
something like this, SELECT, title, type,
COUNT(type) FROM ingredients,
GROUP BY, type.
This query doesn't work, why?
>> Cuz the title could be different for
all of the, different groups.
>> Yeah, it should be different, right?
It actually must be different,
because there's a constraint on the table
that forces them to be different.
So you need to ask yourself,
what is this actually really asking.
The title here is
nonsensical because it's,
the title is being aggregated away
into this type and account type.
So asking for the title here
it's nonsensical to ask for one,
because it couldn't possibly,
you're not really asking for anything.
Or you're asking for
something that doesn't make any sense.
So if you do this,
it's gonna be like, I can't do that.
Because the ingredient title at that
point would have to actually show up in
the group by for
that to make any sense, right?
So in other words, if you're gonna be
asking for something in a SELECT and
you have a GROUP BY.
Everything that's gonna appear in
the GROUP or in the SELECT probably
needs to be in the group by as well,
because you need to be grouping by things.
Grouping by title wouldn't
make any sense because,
everything would have a count of one,
right.
So, I found that really confusing
when I was starting out with SQLs,
I wanna select things that aren't in
the GROUP BY and then I kind of head over.
Have this light bulb moment of,
what am I trying to do here?
And it didn't make any sense.
We'll see more of this as we get
into using the movie database.
We don't really have lot of things
to count on the recipe database.
But I'll show you how to do things like
averages and other things when we get
into Window functions,
which are closely related to aggregation.